[DOCS] Move job count resource definitions into API (#50057)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/ml/anomaly-detection/apis/get-job-stats.asciidoc

[[ml-get-job-stats-results]]
==== {api-response-body-title}

The API returns the following information about the operational progress of a
job:

`assignment_explanation`::
(string) For open jobs only, contains messages relating to the selection
of a node to run the job.

[[datacounts]]`data_counts`::

> (object) An object that describes the number of records processed and any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(object) An object that describes the quantity of input to the job and any
```

related error counts. The `data_count` values are cumulative for the lifetime of
a job. If a model snapshot is reverted or old results are deleted, the job
counts are not reset.

`bucket_count`:::
(long) The number of bucket results produced by the job.

`earliest_record_timestamp`:::
(date) The timestamp of the earliest chronologically input document.

`empty_bucket_count`:::
(long) The number of buckets which did not contain any data. If your data
contains many empty buckets, consider increasing your `bucket_span` or using
functions that are tolerant to gaps in data such as `mean`, `non_null_sum` or `non_zero_count`.

`input_bytes`:::
(long) The number of raw bytes read by the job.

`input_field_count`:::
(long) The total number of record fields read by the job. This count includes
fields that are not used in the analysis.

`input_record_count`:::
(long) The number of data records read by the job.

`invalid_date_count`:::

> (long) The number of records with either a missing date field or a date that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(long) The number of input documents with either a missing date field or a date that
```

could not be parsed.

`job_id`:::
(string)
include::{docdir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=job-id-anomaly-detection]

`last_data_time`:::
(date) The timestamp at which data was last analyzed, according to server time.

`latest_empty_bucket_timestamp`:::
(date) The timestamp of the last bucket that did not contain any data.

`latest_record_timestamp`:::
(date) The timestamp of the latest chronologically input document.

`latest_sparse_bucket_timestamp`:::
(date) The timestamp of the last bucket that was considered sparse.

`missing_field_count`:::

> (long) The number of records that are missing a field that the job is configured

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(long) The number of input documents that are missing a field that the job is configured
```

> to analyze. Records with missing fields are still processed because it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to analyze. Input documents with missing fields are still processed because it is
```

possible that not all fields are missing. The value of `processed_record_count`
includes this count.
+
--
NOTE: If you are using {dfeeds} or posting data to the job in JSON format, a
high `missing_field_count` is often not an indication of data issues. It is not
necessarily a cause for concern.

--

`out_of_order_timestamp_count`:::

> (long) The number of records that are out of time sequence and outside of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(long) The number of input documents that are out of time sequence and outside of the
```

latency window. This information is applicable only when you provide data to the

> job by using the <<ml-post-data,post data API>>. These out of order records are 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
job by using the <<ml-post-data,post data API>>. These out of order documents are 
```

discarded, since jobs require time series data to be in ascending chronological
order.

`processed_field_count`:::

> (long) The total number of fields in all the records that have been processed by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(long) The total number of fields in all the documents that have been processed by
```

the job. Only fields that are specified in the detector configuration object

> contribute to this count. The time stamp is not included in this count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contribute to this count. The timestamp is not included in this count.
```

`processed_record_count`:::

> (long) The number of records that have been processed by the job. This value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(long) The number of input documents that have been processed by the job. This value
```

> includes records with missing fields, since they are nonetheless analyzed. If

Reviewer: ```suggestion
includes documents with missing fields, since they are nonetheless analyzed. If
```

you use {dfeeds} and have aggregations in your search query, the

> `processed_record_count` will be the number of aggregated records processed, not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`processed_record_count` will be the number of aggregation results processed, not
```

consider using a longer `bucket_span`.

[[forecastsstats]]`forecasts_stats`::
(object) An object that provides statistical information about forecasts
of this job. It has the following properties:
+
--
NOTE: Unless there is at least one forecast, `memory_bytes`, `records`,
`processing_time_ms` and `status` properties are omitted.

--

`forecasted_jobs`:::
(long) The number of jobs that have at least one forecast.

`memory_bytes`:::
(object) Statistics about the memory usage: minimum, maximum, average and total.

`records`:::
(object) Statistics about the number of forecast records: minimum, maximum,
saverage and total.

`processing_time_ms`:::
(object) Statistics about the forecast runtime in milliseconds: minimum, maximum,
average and total.

`status`:::
(object) Counts per forecast status. For example: `{"finished" : 2}`. 

`total`:::
(long) The number of forecasts currently available for this model.

`job_id`::
(string)
include::{docdir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=job-id-anomaly-detection]

[[modelsizestats]]`model_size_stats`::
(object) An object that provides information about the size and contents of the
model. It has the following properties:

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

`model_bytes_exceeded`:::
 (long) The number of bytes over the high limit for memory usage at the last allocation failure.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

`model_bytes_memory_limit`:::
(long) The upper limit for memory usage, checked on increasing values.
```

`timestamp`:::
(date) The timestamp of the `model_size_stats` according to the timestamp of the
data.

[[stats-node]]`node`::
(object) Contains properties for the node that runs the job. This information is
available only for open jobs.

`attributes`:::
(object) Lists node attributes. For example,
`{"ml.machine_memory": "17179869184", "ml.max_open_jobs" : "20"}`.
  
`ephemeral_id`:::
(string) The ephemeral ID of the node.

`id`:::
(string) The unique identifier of the node.

`name`:::
(string) The node name.

`transport_address`:::
(string) The host and port where transport HTTP connections are accepted.

`open_time`::
(string) For open jobs only, the elapsed time for which the job has been open.
For example, `28746386s`.

`state`::
(string) The status of the job, which can be one of the following values:
+
--
* `closed`: The job finished successfully with its model state persisted.
  The job must be opened before it can accept further data.
* `closing`: The job close action is in progress and has not yet completed.
  A closing job cannot accept further data.
* `failed`: The job did not finish successfully due to an error.

>   This situation can occur due to invalid input data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This situation can occur due to invalid input data, a fatal error occurring during the analysis, or an external interaction such as the process being killed by the Linux OOM killer.
```

  If the job had irrevocably failed, it must be force closed and then deleted.
  If the {dfeed} can be corrected, the job can be closed and then re-opened.
* `opened`: The job is available to receive and process data.
* `opening`: The job open action is in progress and has not yet completed.
--

[[timingstats]]`timing_stats`::
(object) An object that provides statistical information about timing aspect of
this job. It has the following properties:

`average_bucket_processing_time_ms`:::
(double) Average of all bucket processing times in milliseconds.

`bucket_count`:::
(long) The number of buckets processed.

`exponential_average_bucket_processing_time_ms`:::
(double) Exponential moving average of all bucket processing times in
milliseconds.
+
--
////
`exponential_average_bucket_processing_time_per_hour_ms`:::

> TBD

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(double) Exponentially-weighted moving average of bucket processing times calculated in 1 hour time window
```

////
--
`job_id`:::
(string)
include::{docdir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=job-id-anomaly-detection]

`maximum_bucket_processing_time_ms`:::
(double) Maximum among all bucket processing times in milliseconds.

`minimum_bucket_processing_time_ms`:::
(double) Minimum among all bucket processing times in milliseconds.
////
`total_bucket_processing_time_ms`:::

> TBD

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(double) Sum of all bucket processing times in milliseconds.
```
